for the whole desert I'll need 450 grams
of fruit using 75 grams in the syrup
chop up the larger fruits like the
strawberries to help the syrup cook more
quickly and place them in a small
saucepan add 2 heaped tablespoons of
castor sugar to sweeten and 3
tablespoons of water to loosen and help
create the syrup bring to the simmer and
cook for a few minutes gently mashing
with a spoon this helps release the
fruit juices strain through a sieve
squeezing all flavors from the fruits
and allow to cool when cooled it should
have a thick syrupy consistency and now
it's time for the puff pastry rolled out
nice and thin into sort of a rectangle
30 centimeters by 24 and what I'm also
going to do is just lightly prick this
what you can do of course to get a
little extra sort of shine to it
is brush it with a touch of egg wash a
little touch of egg milk mixed together
and this would then be baked in a
preheated oven you wanted about 220
that's probably better gas mark 7 to 8
really and it will take about 20-25
minutes until it's really crispy
something looking well I like to think
he looks very ordinary it does I mean
that's what it is it's just crispy
pastry
there's no nonsense about this dish
we're not really making lots of fancy
shapes all I want is good crisp pastry
and that's exactly what we've got split
this into and now you can see exactly
what we've got here look at this and
something else you can do just along
this edge you can also trim that off so
you can take a look at all of the layers
that are going on and all we're going to
do is just take the pastry put it onto a
grill like this I'm using a sieve here
because I'm going to dust this fairly
heavily with icing sugar now it seems a
little extravagant again and it is but
you're going to get that sort of little
caramelization as we grill this so we're
going to get almost like finishing a
creme brulee so just imagine that you're
going to have that little
crunch happening on top let's pop this
under the grill and just glaze it you
can see exactly what I mean I mean it
hasn't coated it totally but we've still
got that nice sweetness and here we're
picking up those lovely little
caramelized touches really nice and
crisp as soon as that's cooled that will
crisp something else you can do you can
of course be very extravagant and turn
them over and repeat the same process so
you're going to have that crunch running
all the way through the pastry which
does work very very well the next stage
is going to be the actual pastry cream
now again this is quite a classic recipe
it's a little bit more just than whipped
cream but you can of course just use
whipped cream maybe put a little touch
of fresh vanilla into it for an extra
flavor now to make this I've got here
300 millilitres that's half a pint of
milk and we're also going to add a
little touch of fresh vanilla now all
I'm going to do with this is split the
vanilla pod down the center
scraping either side like that and we're
going to pop that in and also to make
sure we're going to guarantee the
maximum flavor put the split pod into
the milk as well the next stage is the
egg yolks so I'm just going to be using
three and another flavour of course is
sugar and here we have just 75 grams
which we're going to add to the yolks
and all going to do is whisk this up
this is going to be like a sort of a
cold sabayon if you like we just want to
make sure we're creaming the egg yolks
and the sugar together while the milk is
coming to the boil
you